# A European Football Betting Model: Utilizing Poisson Distributions &amp; Kelly Criterion to Maximize Profits
Sports betting has experienced a rapid rise in popularity as accessibility and commercialization of daily fantasy and live betting has increased. As sports betting is legalized
in different countries and states, we are presented with a new opportunity to create statistical models that we can utilize to predict outcomes of different sporting events that can then be used to find inefficiencies in sportsbooks. In this paper, we attempt to create a model for European Soccer and measure its performance against betting markets to understand if this model can be used to generate profits. The paper shows how we assigned teams an attacking and defensive rating based on their production against their league counterparts which we then utilized to create a Poisson distribution that determined the probability of each event (Win, Lose, Draw). To add another dimension to our model, we used an optimization technique known as Kelly Criterion to determine the optimal amount of money that should be bet on each match. This technique generates bet amounts while also creating a value (KCO Value) that acts as an accurate estimator of the risk associated with each match. By exploring the characteristics of this value, we were able to maximize the success of the model. After running the model for the 2018 and 2019 seasons across the five major European soccer leagues, we can safely say that our model was not
only successful in predicting outcomes, but also in generating significant profit yields for a user.

A profit percentage of 119.48% was yielded using this model, which implies that a user would pretty much double their money using this model. We also evaluate how the model performs in different leagues to understand which league characteristics benefit the model. The highest profit percentage was seen in the 2019 Bundesliga season with a profit percentage of over 200%. The success of the model can not only help users generate significant profits, but it can also expose certain inefficiencies in the market. 
